# Roadshows
Roadshows are a great way to reach out to potential customers promoting a product or service in a fast and effective way. A roadshow can be an effective and affordable marketing game plan that can be put together in the shortest period and with the smallest budget.


The Internet has been one of the most useful and integral inventions when it comes to technological advancements and human evolution. Be it healthcare, education, infrastructure, or marketing and brand promotion, the internet has its roots deep within the system. It’s hard to imagine what life would be as a business owner without online marketing, client retention, virtual community building services, customer engagement, and all the other benefits that come from the Internet. Over the year’s internet has been utilized extensively for the marketing and promotion of products and services to reach out to a wider array of audiences and grab client attention; however, the conventional ways of brand promotion can’t be neglected. One such way of brand promotion is Roadshows.
Roadshows are a great way to reach out to potential customers promoting a product or service in a fast and effective way. A roadshow can be an effective and affordable marketing game plan that can be put together in the shortest period and with the smallest budget. Amongst other outdoor advertisement services, roadshows have a faster turnover rate as they can be scripted and become an eventual hit with the sponsor involvement. The lively environment of the event and the engaging stream of content both help create a lasting impression of the brand amongst the participants. Roadshows are conventionally an outdoor form of advertisement which focuses mainly on the physical aspects of promotion, but social media can be integrated into the roadshows to make the whole experience more impactful and engaging for the audience.
•	Streaming the event online on social media handles of the company would help to keep the attendees interested in the brand long after the event is wrapped up.
 Events like these allow the speakers to take the main stage and discuss the latest trends of the industry helping to spread the leadership thought. An event like this is the optimal environment for the sales team to step in and show their magic through words, predesigned templates, and presentations. Moving beyond the conventional phone calls, emails, and social media conversation and striving to create actual face-to-face relationships with the targeted audience and the potential customers amongst them.
Now that we know about the advantages of roadshows over digital ways of promotion, let us see some tips to conduct a successful roadshow:
•	Focusing on the message delivered not on the facts: Most of the information that goes into the event is of great interest to the speaker and the precious sum of the audience gathered there. They don’t usually need every line and sentence to be straight from the books as the audience for most of the event is internally battling it out about what it all means. The major focus in any roadshow event must be that the message the company wants to pass on to the audience reaches the attendees without ambiguity.
•	What your audience craves: The primary focus of any event be it outdoor or virtual is to understand the crux of what your audience is gathered to hear, what they crave. Once you understand the needs of the attendees, the brand identity and goal can be molded and reshaped around that need through marketing and promotion strategies. This will help the brand to showcase its sincerity and authenticity to the audience. 
•	Using metaphors: Presenter Richard Hammond once described Porsche's rear-mounted engine as being, "A bit like building a pyramid with the pointy bit at the bottom." Metaphors are a great tool, to sum up, complex ideas and thoughts quickly. Metaphors help grab the attention of the audience in a much better way and hook them up for longer conversations, speeches, and even sales pitches. This makes metaphors a valuable persuasive tool and a handy weapon in a speaker’s repository. No need for huge and complex charts and graphs, just a well-structured sentence with a bit of metaphor lucidly sums up the whole message.
•	Use of visuals: Are you able to represent your metaphor with something tangible, something physical that can easily be placed on stage? Something you can interact with? According to psychology in an average human brain, 90% of the information transmitted is visual. Furthermore, images are processed in the brain many times faster than any textual format. Physical props are much more effective than slides. Think about it, talking about how an organization is losing resources is one thing; but holding up a bucket of water with a leak in the bottom is different. Find a way to show your audience what you mean and they will never forget you.
•	Slotting a Q&A session at the three-quarter mark: It is a good practice to never end the event or speech with Q&A sessions as there might be a chance the speaker may end up in a scenario where you might have to conclude the event on a defensive note, back-pedaling and having to justify yourself in the face of tough questions or an unanticipated attack. Q&A should be placed or slotted at the three-quarter mark along with the speech. This helps the speaker to answer all the questions and then wrapping up the event as planned on a brighter positive note.
•	Leaving the audience with clear instructions: A speaker needs to conclude the event with clear instructions or guidelines to be conveyed to the audience. Now the question arises what should one say? You just need to tell them what they need to do if they are interested in the showcased product or service. If the goal behind your roadshow is to encourage existing clients to sign up for a new product, using the conclusion to be overt about it: "In a moment, I'd like you to stop by the table at the back and sign up. Then we will call you and organize a consultation."
Roadshows are a great idea and an invaluable opportunity to speak intellectually, emotionally, and with human connection, directly to your market. Put thought into how you go about your roadshow and the results will speak for themselves.

Happy touring!
